2011-04-13 Lumiera Developers Meeting
=====================================
:Author: Ichthyostega
:Date: 2011-4-14

April 13, 2011 on #lumiera 20:00 - 23:47 UTC +

__Participants__

 * cehteh
 * ichthyo
 * fsiddi
 * skangas

_Protocol written by Ichthyo_


.organisational
- IRC meeting summaries will be moved into the main Git tree, below 'doc/devel'
- mostly shortened and tidied IRC logs, plus summary of conclusions \+ decisions
- ``winter quarterly coding news'': this time just paste _Ichthyo's_ contribution into the website
- the next ``coding news'' probably in May?


New Website Page Layout
-----------------------
Summary what is discussed

_cehteh_ points out that...

_joelholdsworth_ adds....


Conclusion
~~~~~~~~~~

 * do this
 * do that



Recurring Topics
----------------
Discussion of open link:/documentation/devel/rfc.html[design process] drafts.


Prop1
~~~~~
link:/documentation/devel/rfc_pending/SomeProposal[descriptive name]
Summary what issues are discussed
..Details..

Conclusion:: drop it



Next meeting
------------

The next meeting will be at Wednesday May 11, 20:00 UTC


''''


.-- Discussion of details --
[caption="☉Transcript☉ "]
----------------------------
[2011-04-13 22:48:05] <fsiddi> there are still some layout issues
[2011-04-13 22:48:13] <fsiddi> i'm working on them
[2011-04-13 22:48:45] <cehteh> that comes with the point about upgrading the webserver ...
[2011-04-13 22:49:00] <cehteh> does newer asciidoc improve this soemhow already?
[2011-04-13 22:49:05] <fsiddi> no
[2011-04-13 22:49:13] <fsiddi> so there is no need on my side to upgrade
[2011-04-13 22:49:24] <cehteh> good to know
[2011-04-13 22:49:37] <cehteh> i had the impression it may make your life easier
[2011-04-13 22:50:02] <cehteh> for the nobug documentation upgrading fixed a lot of bugs 
[2011-04-13 22:50:32] <fsiddi> anyway if you'll find the time to upgrade, it will be good maybe for other things
[2011-04-13 22:49:18] <cehteh> ok
...
[2011-04-13 22:51:42] <fsiddi> the vertical navigation template
[2011-04-13 22:51:53] <fsiddi> i read ichthyo notes
[2011-04-13 22:52:32] <fsiddi> and i'm not sure about this horizontal space concept
[2011-04-13 22:52:45] <fsiddi> could you clarify, please?
[2011-04-13 22:53:09] <ichthyo> todays, the screens can get pretty wide
[2011-04-13 22:53:24] <ichthyo> so there is a huge amount of horizontal space
[2011-04-13 22:53:39] <ichthyo> while most documents are rater organised vertically (for good reasons)
[2011-04-13 22:53:45] <cehteh> 23" 16:9 with 2048x1152 in front of me
[2011-04-13 22:56:19] <cehteh> http://www.spiegel.de/ looks already ugly on my 12" laptop by default
[2011-04-13 22:54:01] <ichthyo> e.g. if I enlarge my browser here to full screen
[2011-04-13 22:54:13] <ichthyo> the current layout just covers less then half the space
[2011-04-13 22:54:13] <cehteh> is it possibly to flow text in 2 columns on wide screens?
[2011-04-13 22:54:35] <ichthyo> cehteh: thats rather tricky and involved
[2011-04-13 22:54:41] <fsiddi> exactly
[2011-04-13 22:54:51] <ichthyo> guess that won't work without entering more java script coding
[2011-04-13 22:54:53] <fsiddi> it is possible, but very tough
[2011-04-13 22:55:01] <cehteh> well i dislike pages which dont use most of the screen and leave it empty
[2011-04-13 22:55:03] <fsiddi> CSS3 can do it almost on its own
[2011-04-13 22:55:22] <fsiddi> but it's not cross browser yet
....
[2011-04-13 22:55:35] <ichthyo> so my idea was just to let us discuss how we could use that additional space, when its available
[2011-04-13 22:55:42] <cehteh> if the screen is wide enough they should make 'some' use of it .. maybe just using biggier fonts
[2011-04-13 22:55:43] <ichthyo> and if that is feasible
[2011-04-13 22:56:08] <ichthyo> I mean, just lets discuss open ended
[2011-04-13 22:56:25] <ichthyo> what possibilities do we see for that?
[2011-04-13 22:56:46] <ichthyo> using 2 columns would be one possibility, but that is tough and demading to get to work properly
[2011-04-13 22:57:02] <fsiddi> there are basically 2 ways
[2011-04-13 22:57:18] <fsiddi> 1 is to use liquid layout
[2011-04-13 22:57:49] <ichthyo> liquit layout means, that the content area just expands, right?
[2011-04-13 22:57:56] <fsiddi> like wikipedia yes
[2011-04-13 22:58:14] <cehteh> http://slashdot.org/ scales reasonable well with different screen sizes
[2011-04-13 22:58:52] <ichthyo> wikipedia is also an interesting example, because they use lots of floating block content
[2011-04-13 22:58:57] <ichthyo> tables, images, additional infos
[2011-04-13 22:59:20] <fsiddi> yes the mediawiki software is very powerful
[2011-04-13 22:59:38] <fsiddi> another *very* well done documentation is http://developer.apple.com/library/mac/navigation/
[2011-04-13 22:59:52] <fsiddi> (from a design point of view)
[2011-04-13 22:59:54] <fsiddi> :)
[2011-04-13 23:00:01] * cehteh likes (or rather demands) that browser zoom (ctrl-+) works well on the lumiera page
...
[2011-04-13 23:05:14] <fsiddi> ok, so apart from that, the discussion is liquid vs not liquid
[2011-04-13 23:05:31] <ichthyo> and also what possibilities there are
[2011-04-13 23:05:43] <fsiddi> ichthyo: what do you mean?
[2011-04-13 23:05:56] <ichthyo> e.g. just expanding the content area
[2011-04-13 23:06:04] <ichthyo> or also using a script to increase the font
[2011-04-13 23:06:13] <ichthyo> or using floating blocks in the sidebar
[2011-04-13 23:06:38] <ichthyo> (asciidoc has several elements which could float into the sidebar)
[2011-04-13 23:07:09] <ichthyo> and if we know that the site layout supports that, then we'll likely make use of that
                                when writing documentation
[2011-04-13 23:07:10] <cehteh> when you have a page with a lot (many sideful) of content then a side menu
                               (also footer/header) must be floating or can be left out
[2011-04-13 23:07:31] <cehteh> there is no point in having a side-menu only visible for 3% of the content
[2011-04-13 23:07:45] <ichthyo> ah yes, thats another point, i.e. how to treat the vertical scrolling
[2011-04-13 23:08:07] <ichthyo> it is possible e.g. to have the scrollbars on the content area
[2011-04-13 23:08:08] <cehteh> imo we need 2 classes of pages .. small ones and huge ones
[2011-04-13 23:08:22] <cehteh> scrollbars inside are inconvinient
[2011-04-13 23:08:18] <fsiddi> http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/Doc:Manual
[2011-04-13 23:08:37] <fsiddi> it has scrolling sidebar
[2011-04-13 23:09:08] <cehteh> but with js again
[2011-04-13 23:09:19] <cehteh> i seen that as CSS only solution i think
[2011-04-13 23:09:37] <cehteh> otherwise yes, thats an option ..
[2011-04-13 23:10:02] <ichthyo> cehteh: yes, you can get that just with CSS
[2011-04-13 23:10:23] <fsiddi> actually you need js to trigger the class to make it floating

[2011-04-13 23:10:27] <cehteh> back to my statement, do you agree that we need this 2 kinds of classes?
[2011-04-13 23:10:36] <fsiddi> i don't think so
[2011-04-13 23:10:42] * ichthyo neither
[2011-04-13 23:10:56] <fsiddi> cehteh, i think it will overcomplicate the backend
[2011-04-13 23:11:03] <ichthyo> because I guess 90% of the documentation pages will get into the "large, much content" category
[2011-04-13 23:11:05] <cehteh> really?
[2011-04-13 23:11:12] <cehteh> yes
[2011-04-13 23:11:19] <ichthyo> so we *do* have two templates already
[2011-04-13 23:11:22] <fsiddi> i think it's better to keep it flexible
[2011-04-13 23:11:26] <cehteh> and does this documentation need a sidebar?
[2011-04-13 23:11:26] <fsiddi> yes
[2011-04-13 23:11:35] <fsiddi> we use 2 templates
[2011-04-13 23:12:16] <ichthyo> one is the "top level", with the horizontal menu
[2011-04-13 23:12:24] <cehteh> this boils down to one for the general pages and one for documentation
[2011-04-13 23:12:25] <ichthyo> and the second one is the documentation template, right
[2011-04-13 23:12:44] <ichthyo> while those "general" pages are a handful
[2011-04-13 23:12:45] <fsiddi> yes
[2011-04-13 23:12:55] <cehteh> yes
[2011-04-13 23:12:56] <ichthyo> while the documentation pages will go into the hundred and more
[2011-04-13 23:14:08] <ichthyo> so I draw the conclusion, that the documentation pages are optimised for much content
[2011-04-13 23:14:19] <fsiddi> yes
[2011-04-13 23:13:30] <cehteh> ok .. settled
... 
[2011-04-13 23:13:54] <fsiddi> i propose to keep the layout not liquid also in that pages
[2011-04-13 23:14:35] <fsiddi> if you prefer i can make them larger
[2011-04-13 23:14:49] <fsiddi> but for the moment i'd like to keep the same width
[2011-04-13 23:14:48] <ichthyo> what are the problems you see with a liquid layout?
[2011-04-13 23:15:08] <fsiddi> mostly a readability issue
[2011-04-13 23:15:29] <fsiddi> if a page is too large, it's unreadable
[2011-04-13 23:15:39] <ichthyo> well, I second that statement
[2011-04-13 23:15:53] <ichthyo> if a page goes over a certain amount of characters per line
[2011-04-13 23:16:10] <fsiddi> ichthyo: that's what i mean
[2011-04-13 23:15:53] <cehteh> can you scale the font on huge screens with css?
[2011-04-13 23:16:10] <ichthyo> cehteh: not in css2
[2011-04-13 23:16:15] <cehteh> ok
[2011-04-13 23:16:24] <ichthyo> java script would work
[2011-04-13 23:16:42] <cehteh> i opt for a reasonable big max size as already proposed
[2011-04-13 23:16:47] <ichthyo> well, but if we manage to limit those number of characters per line
[2011-04-13 23:16:55] <fsiddi> i can implement that
[2011-04-13 23:16:58] <cehteh> but dont make this too small
[2011-04-13 23:17:05] <ichthyo> then liquid layout might be more reasonable
[2011-04-13 23:17:33] <fsiddi> ok

[2011-04-13 23:17:36] <ichthyo> I am not 100% sure, but I recall having seen a layout, just based on CSS,
                                which achieved exactly that,
[2011-04-13 23:18:03] <ichthyo> i.e. limiting the maximum width, but allowing some liquid expansion below that
[2011-04-13 23:17:55] <fsiddi> i'm not sure that just CSS is possible
[2011-04-13 23:18:20] <ichthyo> If I recall right, it used several nested containers
[2011-04-13 23:18:17] <cehteh> wtf is liquid?
[2011-04-13 23:18:23] * cehteh is no web developer
[2011-04-13 23:18:27] <cehteh> free floating text?
[2011-04-13 23:18:32] <ichthyo> cehteh: liquid means, that the sizes adjust
[2011-04-13 23:18:55] <cehteh> boxes where the content is rendered?
[2011-04-13 23:18:36] <fsiddi> sorry guys
[2011-04-13 23:18:42] <fsiddi> let me clarify
[2011-04-13 23:18:51] <fsiddi> I thought you were familiar with the term
[2011-04-13 23:18:55] <ichthyo> I am
[2011-04-13 23:19:03] <cehteh> yes i am the web noob here
[2011-04-13 23:19:20] <ichthyo> ... while I did quite a lot in the past, but mostly web applications, shops and the like
[2011-04-13 23:19:37] <cehteh> cant you just give a max-width=200em for a container for example?
[2011-04-13 23:19:47] <fsiddi> yes
[2011-04-13 23:19:53] <fsiddi> it is possible
[2011-04-13 23:19:59] <ichthyo> and then you set an "overflow mode"
[2011-04-13 23:20:14] <cehteh> and whats overflow mode?
[2011-04-13 23:20:28] <ichthyo> overflow mode is: adjust, clip, scrollbars
[2011-04-13 23:20:17] <ichthyo> and if I recall correct, then the trick was to put a second container in that, with witdh 100%
[2011-04-13 23:20:54] <fsiddi> i think we can set this
[2011-04-13 23:21:03] <fsiddi> i'll investigate the possibilities we mentioned
[2011-04-13 23:21:08] <fsiddi> and make a report in 1 week
[2011-04-13 23:21:35] <ichthyo> fsiddi: that would be cool
[2011-04-13 23:21:52] <ichthyo> I'll too try to dig in my old notes, maybe I'll find the example I have in mind

[2011-04-13 23:21:41] <fsiddi> now i'l like to mention the 2nd and final point
[2011-04-13 23:22:52] <fsiddi> my 2nd point is: navigation
[2011-04-13 23:23:33] <fsiddi> can somebody help me with reimplementing the original nav system
[2011-04-13 23:23:50] <cehteh> the menu?
[2011-04-13 23:23:56] <ichthyo> yes, of course
[2011-04-13 23:23:58] <fsiddi> that reads the url and opens up the tree at the right point
[2011-04-13 23:24:07] <fsiddi> that's pretty important
[2011-04-13 23:24:26] <fsiddi> after that works, it'll be just fixes in the layout
[2011-04-13 23:24:45] <ichthyo> of course I'll help, just I don't know the new menu system so well
[2011-04-13 23:24:54] <ichthyo> so we'll should just pair up on that
[2011-04-13 23:25:06] <fsiddi> cool
[2011-04-13 23:25:29] <ichthyo> maybe we should just set up a separate meeting here on IRC, where we can discuss that?
[2011-04-13 23:25:41] <ichthyo> (you and me, that is)
[2011-04-13 23:25:44] <fsiddi> so will you have time to work on it next week?
[2011-04-13 23:26:45] <fsiddi> i'll poke you after my report on the 1st point then

[2011-04-13 23:28:23] <ichthyo> well I'd like to bring up the question regarding color
[2011-04-13 23:28:36] <ichthyo> and I'll ask especially you, fsiddi 
[2011-04-13 23:28:44] <ichthyo> you know, colours are a matter of taste
[2011-04-13 23:29:15] <ichthyo> thus I'd say, as you did the general layout, you have an important say in that
[2011-04-13 23:28:59] <fsiddi> ah yes colors
[2011-04-13 23:29:11] <fsiddi> i try to keep it neutral
[2011-04-13 23:29:25] <ichthyo> you you would popose to stick to just gray shades?
[2011-04-13 23:29:34] <ichthyo> what is with the links?
[2011-04-13 23:29:39] <ichthyo> currently they are slate blue
[2011-04-13 23:29:45] <cehteh> thats ok for me
[2011-04-13 23:29:47] <fsiddi> i still have to work in them
[2011-04-13 23:29:55] <fsiddi> yes I did not color the links
[2011-04-13 23:30:13] <ichthyo> generally speaking, we should always try to limit the number of colours in a layout, IMHO
[2011-04-13 23:30:18] <cehteh> i dont think we shall use any fancy colors and maybe/if required then we add colors as markup
[2011-04-13 23:30:29] <ichthyo> but we could think of one or two "leading colours"
[2011-04-13 23:30:35] <fsiddi> i want to
[2011-04-13 23:30:43] <fsiddi> but did not put them in the css yet
[2011-04-13 23:30:53] <fsiddi> i'll do that soon
[2011-04-13 23:31:38] <fsiddi> so this is also for review soon :)
[2011-04-13 23:32:07] <cehteh> but colors are fixable and we dont have an official lumiera color (do we need one?)
[2011-04-13 23:32:22] <ichthyo> well... we could think about that
[2011-04-13 23:32:19] <fsiddi> i'll try to make up one
[2011-04-13 23:32:28] <cehteh> dunno :)
[2011-04-13 23:32:37] <ichthyo> according to my experience
[2011-04-13 23:32:47] <ichthyo> it helps a lot when you set a clear style guide early
[2011-04-13 23:33:41] <ichthyo> ok
[2011-04-13 23:33:51] <ichthyo> so what was the conclusion regarding the scrollbars?
[2011-04-13 23:34:19] <ichthyo> do we want scrollbars on the content area, or do we want the header, footer just to scroll away
[2011-04-13 23:34:33] <ichthyo> and do we want the navigation block fixed (relative to the screen)
[2011-04-13 23:34:42] <ichthyo> or let it scroll away too?
[2011-04-13 23:35:59] <cehteh> for general content, have it fixed, for documentation scroll it away?
[2011-04-13 23:36:10] <ichthyo> the simplest solution is  just to leave evertything scroll away of course
[2011-04-13 23:36:27] <cehteh> documentation pages need to be able to navigate within this documentation
[2011-04-13 23:36:45] <cehteh> next/previous/top and maybe few related pages
[2011-04-13 23:36:58] <cehteh> and back to home/home of documentation
[2011-04-13 23:37:06] <cehteh> but not more i think
[2011-04-13 23:37:21] <ichthyo> thats the point, it can get cluttered
[2011-04-13 23:37:52] <cehteh> yes, leave only the minimal necessary things
[2011-04-13 23:38:08] <ichthyo> well... *if* we want to keep the navigation (vertical menu) fixed, there are some problems
[2011-04-13 23:38:12] <cehteh> at least the documentation should be readable on a small device, webpad, netbook even smartphone
[2011-04-13 23:38:46] <ichthyo> namely: what to do on unexpectedly small pages, and what to do when the menu tree itself
                                gets very large, so it doesn't fit on one page, even in half collapsed state, that is
[2011-04-13 23:39:29] <cehteh> you cant fix/address everything
[2011-04-13 23:39:42] <ichthyo> of course, but how to degrade then
[2011-04-13 23:39:49] <ichthyo> allow a scrollbar to appear?
[2011-04-13 23:39:51] <cehteh> there should be some safety marigin but otherwise just the browsers default fallbacks shall apply
[2011-04-13 23:40:45] <cehteh> in the worst case then the defaults are the best, the user is used how his device handles this
[2011-04-13 23:40:57] <ichthyo> good point
[2011-04-13 23:41:00] <fsiddi> right now the tree expands, scrollbars automatically appear
[2011-04-13 23:41:20] <ichthyo> ok
[2011-04-13 23:41:47] <fsiddi> and atm i would not consider portable devices for accessing the documentation
[2011-04-13 23:43:59] <fsiddi> anyway, i am about to leave for tonight
[2011-04-13 23:44:08] <ichthyo> ok
[2011-04-13 23:44:19] <ichthyo> I think we're through with the web page design questions for now
[2011-04-13 23:44:26] <fsiddi> good
[2011-04-13 23:44:33] <ichthyo> :)

[2011-04-13 23:45:32] <skangas> Hi.
[2011-04-13 23:45:40] <ichthyo> Hello skangas !
[2011-04-13 23:47:53] <skangas> I will actually just pop in to say hi this time.
[2011-04-13 23:48:18] <ichthyo> skangas: how's life? had a busy time?
[2011-04-13 23:48:24] <skangas> I have late nights and early mornings at the moment, so I need my sleep. ;-)
[2011-04-13 23:48:33] <ichthyo> ;-)
[2011-04-13 23:48:42] <skangas> ichthyo, Yeah, I am quite busy for the rest of this semester.
[2011-04-13 23:49:06] <skangas> I am hoping things will change once summer comes. They usually do.
[2011-04-13 23:49:42] <ichthyo> hopefully you've got interesting things to learn and program right now...
[2011-04-13 23:49:46] <skangas> And, I decided not to apply for GSoC, so I know there will be time. :-)
[2011-04-13 23:50:09] <cehteh> Lumiera Summer of Code :P
[2011-04-13 23:50:12] <skangas> Yeah, it is basically math and compilers currently. And even a bit of Prolog.
[2011-04-13 23:50:18] <ichthyo> LuSoC
[2011-04-13 23:50:19] <cehteh> cool :)
[2011-04-13 23:50:43] <ichthyo> heh, I really enjoyed that compiler building lections
[2011-04-13 23:50:46] <cehteh> http://dtai.cs.kuleuven.be/problog/index.html  stomped on that recently .. would be fun to play with it
[2011-04-13 23:51:35] <cehteh> http://www.dcc.fc.up.pt/~vsc/Yap/clpbn/ is also cool .. unfortunally i think development stalled a bit
[2011-04-13 23:51:40] <skangas> cehteh: This looks like (from skimming) exactly like the mathematical models I have been playing around with all day in school.

[2011-04-13 23:51:46] <cehteh> uhm ok lets go on with the metting
[2011-04-13 23:52:21] <ichthyo> two further topics, related:
[2011-04-13 23:52:25] <ichthyo> the "impressum"
[2011-04-13 23:52:27] <ichthyo> the license
[2011-04-13 23:52:46] <cehteh> ah yes, i seen you added serveral licenses .. 
[2011-04-13 23:53:08] <cehteh> we should make more clear which license lumiera is under
[2011-04-13 23:53:25] <cehteh> only one 'license' page .. with gplv2
[2011-04-13 23:53:50] <cehteh> and then  'other licenses' pages and explain where they are used
[2011-04-13 23:52:56] <ichthyo> for the impressum, as said
[2011-04-13 23:53:08] <ichthyo> I volunteer to put my name in there
[2011-04-13 23:53:25] <ichthyo> so we sort-of share the consequences
[2011-04-13 23:54   ] <cehteh> for the impressum .. fine if you do, if you want you can add me too
[2011-04-13 23:54   ] <cehteh> and we have to figure out where to place the impressum .. iirc it must be on the homepage
[2011-04-13 23:54   ] <cehteh> but it doesnt need to be in the menu
[2011-04-13 23:55   ] <cehteh> just a very tiny links in the footer is enough


[2011-04-13 23:54:14] <skangas> For the record, I agree with what ichthyo said in his first e-mail.
[2011-04-13 23:54:55] <skangas> That "dual licensing under GPL and something comparable" is the best choice.
[2011-04-13 23:55:03] <skangas> Probably CC-BY-SA.
[2011-04-13 23:55:10] <ichthyo> my thinking too
[2011-04-13 23:56:05] <ichthyo> that is, for the web content, and the documentation
[2011-04-13 23:57:00] <ichthyo> cehteh: would that be ok for you too?
[2011-04-13 23:59:29] <cehteh> [23:58] <cehteh> mhm?
[2011-04-13 23:59:31] <cehteh> .. any answers beyond that?
[2011-04-13 23:59:55] <ichthyo> seems we had a short split or so
[2011-04-14 00:00:07] <ichthyo> skangas and myself just talked about licenses
[2011-04-14 00:00:09] <cehteh> i got completely disconnected
[2011-04-14 00:00:41] <ichthyo> [23:57]	<ichthyo>	cehteh: would that be ok for you too?
[2011-04-14 00:01:29] <cehteh> CC-BY-SA  means?
[2011-04-14 00:01:47] <ichthyo> Creative commons 3.0 attribution share alike
[2011-04-14 00:02:39] <ichthyo> cehteh: CC-BY-SA is considered "equivalent in spirit" with the GPL
[2011-04-14 00:01:50] <cehteh> copyleft .. attribution .. share-alike?
[2011-04-14 00:02:25] <cehteh> this dualcicensing would be ok for me .. but a note
[2011-04-14 00:02:48] <cehteh> how about putting the documentation under a non-commercial license?
[2011-04-14 00:03:03] <ichthyo> that would throw us out of debian main
[2011-04-14 00:03:13] <cehteh> that is no one can use the lumiera docs for release printed docs and make profit from it
[2011-04-14 00:03:14] <ichthyo> debian considers such a license "non-free"
[2011-04-14 00:03:49] <ichthyo> well, I am not so much concerened about that
[2011-04-14 00:04:03] <ichthyo> because, the docs still remain available
[2011-04-14 00:04:16] <ichthyo> and if someone really goes through all the pain of creating printed stuff
[2011-04-14 00:04:31] <ichthyo> and does it well, then he deserves to make profit from that, IMHO
[2011-04-14 00:04:25] <cehteh> but i dislike the idea that someone makes profit with no work and no giving back
[2011-04-14 00:04:48] <ichthyo> I am sure that *does require* substantial amount of work
[2011-04-14 00:05:03] <ichthyo> if that person wants any chance to sell something
[2011-04-14 00:05:23] <ichthyo> just print a crappy web dump won't make anyone sell much copies, IMHO
[2011-04-14 00:04:59] <cehteh> then its ok for me
[2011-04-14 00:05:33] <cehteh> but i've seen publisher which just took the free docs do *little* editing and formating
                               and sell it for a lot money
[2011-04-14 00:05:53] <ichthyo> and, will he make substantial turnover with that?
[2011-04-14 00:06:15] <skangas> Yeah, I think the point here is that poor quality high prices do not sell.
[2011-04-14 00:06:16] <cehteh> btw GPL only would prevent that too .. the publisher has to release his tex,
                                m$ -word or whatever sources then
[2011-04-14 00:06:36] <cehteh> does -sa prevent that too?
[2011-04-14 00:06:36] <ichthyo> making modifications available under the same conditions, yes.
[2011-04-14 00:06:46] <cehteh> besides, he needs to point out *within* that printed docs, that the license is free
[2011-04-14 00:07:44] <cehteh> but possibly some people get upset when they contribute a lot and someone else makes the profit
[2011-04-14 00:07:44] <skangas> I do not see how it would damage our goals.
[2011-04-14 00:08:06] <skangas> It would be more in the spirit of not allowing the free-loaders easy access.
[2011-04-14 00:08:20] <cehteh> well as i saied, that was just a note/idea .. i am fine with the dual-licensing
[2011-04-14 00:08:39] <ichthyo> well... here is the standard argument: if someone creates additional value on top of what
                                we provide, i.e. make a quality print, process orders, ship the copies,
                                then fine for me, if he/she makes turnover with that
[2011-04-14 00:09:01] <cehteh> yes
[2011-04-14 00:09:08] <skangas> I do not care much for that argument.
[2011-04-14 00:09:16] <skangas> For me, it is more about getting into Debian main.
[2011-04-14 00:09:59] <skangas> And the fact that I do not care if some marginal publisher makes a bit of money off
                                of the Lumiera documentation.
[2011-04-14 00:09:10] <ichthyo> the online docs will always be more acurate, more up-to-date
[2011-04-14 00:09:13] <skangas> Not even if a big one does it; that would only mean more attention to the project.
[2011-04-14 00:09:32] <cehteh> i would like this if we even can point to him and announce that as the offical lumiera book
[2011-04-14 00:10:10] <cehteh> but there are so much publishers which just try to make money without being really involved
[2011-04-14 00:10:31] <skangas> cehteh, Yes, even publishers which only print Wikipedia articles.
[2011-04-14 00:10:46] <ichthyo> and btw, what is more realistic, given that lumiera becomes a real, professional app,
                                then maybe someone will provide lectures and training
                                and that is much more apt to create a good turnover and benefit
[2011-04-14 00:11:14] <cehteh> ichthyo: lectures and training involves work .. thats ok
[2011-04-14 00:11:42] <cehteh> anyeays ... dual license gpl and cc-by-sa
[2011-04-14 00:11:46] <cehteh> ok for me
[2011-04-14 00:11:55] <ichthyo> fine, seems case is settled
[2011-04-14 00:12:04] <cehteh> eh which gpl ? gpl2+ .. same as lumiera 
[2011-04-14 00:12:08] <ichthyo> yes
[2011-04-14 00:12:15] <ichthyo> thats important
[2011-04-14 00:12:32] <cehteh> and we may bump lumiera to gplv3 when we release it (and we know all its dependencies)
[2011-04-14 00:12:39] <ichthyo> so you can move code / doc in both directions without problems
[2011-04-14 00:12:42] <skangas> GPLv2+ not GPLv2, right?
[2011-04-14 00:12:48] <cehteh> skangas: yes
[2011-04-14 00:12:51] <skangas> OK. Great.
[2011-04-14 00:13:14] <cehteh> we only use gplv2 now because we dont want to rule out to use external libs which may be v2 only
[2011-04-14 00:13:25] <ichthyo> and a rather firm promise to bump it to gpl3 when this works and we're approaching a release
[2011-04-14 00:13:40] <cehteh> or gplv4 :P
[2011-04-14 00:13:47] <ichthyo> yay!
[2011-04-14 00:13:51] <cehteh> btw duke nukem is delayed
[2011-04-14 00:14:02] <ichthyo> ouch, I'm surprised

[2011-04-14 00:14:41] <cehteh> ok lets summarise:
[2011-04-14 00:14:47] <cehteh> ichthyo: you add the impressum
[2011-04-14 00:14:51] <ichthyo> ok
[2011-04-14 00:15:00] <ichthyo> I clarify the actual licenses we use
[2011-04-14 00:15:07] <cehteh> yes
[2011-04-14 00:15:34] <cehteh> currently its not easily visible which license lumiera falls under
[2011-04-14 00:16:05] <ichthyo> well, it's in the first senctence, and even in bold font
[2011-04-14 00:16:10] <ichthyo> http://lumiera.org/project/legal/legal.html
[2011-04-14 00:16:40] <cehteh> yes but imo there should be only one License menu point, pointing to the gplv2 and our rationale document
[2011-04-14 00:16:56] <skangas> ichthyo, Error on that page Webiste -> Website
[2011-04-14 00:17:09] <cehteh> and then maybe other sub items exactly stating "other licenses" or "license for the documentation" 
[2011-04-14 00:17:09] <skangas> I really need to sleep now... Good night!
[2011-04-14 00:17:09] <ichthyo> thanks, noted
[2011-04-14 00:17:45] <ichthyo> skangas: good night, sleep well!
[2011-04-14 00:18:03] <cehteh> if i click on license for some project i dont want to read much there should be just "this is licensed under foolicense" as first prominent sentence
[2011-04-14 00:18:08] <cehteh> n8 skangas 
[2011-04-14 00:18:57] <ichthyo> ok
[2011-04-14 00:18:58] <cehteh> for me now when i seen the 'license' menu after you added it, it unfolded to a list of licenses ..
[2011-04-14 00:19:15] <cehteh> me alreadly thought "wtf" ... guess what some outsider will think :)
[2011-04-14 00:19:45] <ichthyo> :)

[2011-04-14 00:20:03] <ichthyo> anyway, I think there are still some minor points left to discuss for this meeting
[2011-04-14 00:20:14] <cehteh> yes .. next one:
[2011-04-14 00:20:30] <cehteh>  - Trac spam, solved, whats left to do (delete unused accounts)
[2011-04-14 00:21:00] <cehteh> you told me that its easily to delete the unused accounts ..
                               but from some i know that they are real users
[2011-04-14 00:21:20] <ichthyo> well.. it is easy to tell those apart
[2011-04-14 00:21:23] <cehteh> i tihnk we should notify this at least on the ml
[2011-04-14 00:21:32] <ichthyo> just need to improve the SQL a bit
[2011-04-14 00:21:55] <ichthyo> the trick is: those "old" inactive accounts are by definition older than
                               the spam accounts we delete
[2011-04-14 00:21:45] <cehteh> how about creating a category 'people' on trac
[2011-04-14 00:22:03] <cehteh> where everyone who is new is instructed to fill a first ticket .. 
[2011-04-14 00:22:29] <cehteh> puts a bit burden on the people, not really a good idea
[2011-04-14 00:22:46] <cehteh> but anyways meanwhile there are a lot more spam accounts, we should regulary wipe them
[2011-04-14 00:22:58] <ichthyo> yes, so for now I'd just run that SQL once a month manually
[2011-04-14 00:23:34] <cehteh> prolly you should do that weekly :P
[2011-04-14 00:23:38] <ichthyo> after some months, if we see it works well always, we can do a little shell script
                                to issue that SQL
[2011-04-14 00:23:42] <cehteh> crontab ftw
[2011-04-14 00:23:50] <ichthyo> or so, weekly, no prob
[2011-04-14 00:24:02] <cehteh> you stay tuned and care for that?
[2011-04-14 00:24:17] <ichthyo> yes, for the next time, and sometime in summer we make a cronjob
[2011-04-14 00:25:28] <cehteh> eh just logged in. .. prolly 80% are spam meanwhile
[2011-04-14 00:25:32] <ichthyo> hehe

[2011-04-14 00:25:59] <cehteh> ok next point:
[2011-04-14 00:26:07] <cehteh>  - Webserver update to squeeze (new asciidoc, keep ichthyos hand
[2011-04-14 00:26:07] <cehteh>    installed trac)
[2011-04-14 00:26:07] <cehteh>  - Do we want to bump our 'reference' distribution to squeeze too?
[2011-04-14 00:26:19] <cehteh> ... webserver .. as soon as possible, but no urge
[2011-04-14 00:26:34] <cehteh> reference .. i just wanted to bring this up, imo there is no need
[2011-04-14 00:26:46] <ichthyo> personally, I will upgrade soon, next 2 weeks hopefully
[2011-04-14 00:27:13] <cehteh> yes i am on squeeze and even with backports already
[2011-04-14 00:27:29] <cehteh> so its prolly even better to have the reference on the devel server a bit behind
[2011-04-14 00:27:28] <ichthyo> I would propose to bump the "reference" the moment when we actually upgrade the
                                devserver + builddrone
[2011-04-14 00:27:51] <cehteh> well the devserver will be upgraded when we bump the reference
[2011-04-14 00:28:10] <cehteh> builddrone will be upgraded sometime next but thats not related to the reference
[2011-04-14 00:28:12] <ichthyo> but for now there is no problem also supporting lenny, but with the note that we'll
                                drop that support once we run into serious problems
[2011-04-14 00:28:22] <cehteh> yes
[2011-04-14 00:28:30] <cehteh> iirc that would be the reason to bump it
[2011-04-14 00:29:05] <ichthyo> well, IMHO, when we both are on squeeze, then effectively the reference is bumped :-P
[2011-04-14 00:29:40] <cehteh> nah .. the reference is about what builddrone reports to us too
[2011-04-14 00:29:15] <cehteh> i'd stay with lenny as long as we can so .. or maybe if the next stable gets froozen
                               then we can go to squeeze
[2011-04-14 00:29:51] <cehteh> and what skangas and other gui coders need also
[2011-04-14 00:30:15] <cehteh> i expect that gavl and gui dependencies will be a cause for a bump

[2011-04-14 00:32:50] <cehteh> summarize: bump it someday .. as need arises?
[2011-04-14 00:33:26] <cehteh> or even better. .. no decision yet .. we'll see when its time

[2011-04-14 00:33:40] <cehteh> ok next point:
[2011-04-14 00:34:57] <cehteh>  - Go over pending RFC's (quick, not in detail this time)
[2011-04-14 00:35:11] <cehteh> should become regular on each meeting

[2011-04-14 00:48:25] <cehteh> http://lumiera.org/documentation/devel/rfc_pending/ApplicationInstall.html
[2011-04-14 00:48:40] <ichthyo> maybe only pick out some interestin ones or some which are quick to decide
[2011-04-14 00:49:06] <cehteh> well i want to go over all pending .. then we can put notes there "boring for the next meeting"
[2011-04-14 00:49:24] <cehteh> and next time we pcik only the interesting ones
[2011-04-14 00:49:33] <ichthyo> ok
[2011-04-14 00:49:42] <cehteh> for example this application install .. is boring .. you did a lot work, imo you can finalize it
[2011-04-14 00:50:04] <cehteh> (i dint read it in detail now)
[2011-04-14 00:50:25] <cehteh> maybe we want another state "accepted" ..
[2011-04-14 00:50:44] <cehteh> that is the interesting things which we know we will not drop but which are not finalized yet
[2011-04-14 00:53:02] <cehteh> adding that to rfc.sh would be trivial
[2011-04-14 00:53:25] <ichthyo> I think, the existing states are enough
[2011-04-14 00:53:26] <cehteh> yeah .. i think we dont need to 'finalize' and decide finally now
[2011-04-14 00:53:44] <ichthyo> either really discuss something and then decide, or just leave it in draft
[2011-04-14 00:53:50] <cehteh> well i just started alphabetically 
[2011-04-14 00:54:05] <ichthyo> lets just postpone the application install and leave it in draft!
[2011-04-14 00:54:29] <cehteh> the application install came first... we need it, you did it well .. it could be 'finalized' or rather that would be some 'acceepted' candidate .. 

[2011-04-14 00:54:24] <ichthyo> Delectus?
[2011-04-14 00:54:40] <cehteh> delectus can be parked until someone else comes up with it
[2011-04-14 00:54:48] <cehteh> (btw i can do this right here and commit it)
[2011-04-14 00:54:51] <ichthyo> yes, so thats an decision, lets park it
[2011-04-14 00:54:57] <ichthyo> please do

[2011-04-14 00:55:42] <ichthyo> question: do the parked onees also go into a different directory?
[2011-04-14 00:55:49] <ichthyo> I'm asking because of the menu
[2011-04-14 00:56:04] <cehteh> iirc not .. but i can do that
[2011-04-14 00:56:13] <cehteh> (adding to rfc.sh)
[2011-04-14 00:56:17] <cehteh> let me look
[2011-04-14 00:56:46] <cehteh> no ... i make a rfc_parked/ dir
[2011-04-14 00:57:05] <ichthyo> ok that would be nice
[2011-04-14 00:57:34] <cehteh> ok noted

[2011-04-14 00:57:34] <ichthyo> next one
[2011-04-14 00:57:47] <ichthyo> http://lumiera.org/documentation/devel/rfc_pending/DesignParamAutomation.html
[2011-04-14 00:57:55] <cehteh> keep pending?
[2011-04-14 00:57:57] <ichthyo> well, its Idea, I have to expand on that
[2011-04-14 00:57:57] <ichthyo> yes
[2011-04-14 00:58:01] <ichthyo> please keep pending

[2011-04-14 00:58:11] <cehteh> Design Process : Clip Cataloging System
[2011-04-14 00:58:16] <cehteh> park
[2011-04-14 00:58:20] <ichthyo> park

[2011-04-14 00:58:31] <ichthyo> LumieraForwardIterator
[2011-04-14 00:58:37] <cehteh> Design Process: Lumiera Forward Iterator
[2011-04-14 00:58:39] <cehteh> pending

[2011-04-14 00:58:48] <ichthyo> well, this is entirely an C++ topic
[2011-04-14 00:58:58] <ichthyo> I for my part vote for accepting it now
[2011-04-14 00:59:11] <ichthyo> I use this concept now since almost a year and it worked out well
[2011-04-14 00:59:25] <cehteh> yeah i think its more a trac ticket than a rfc
[2011-04-14 00:59:55] <ichthyo> well, it *is* something which would need discussion if there where more than one C++ developer
[2011-04-14 01:00:14] <cehteh> but if it works for you, i put it on 'maybe finalize' .. means i read through it and finalize it
                               when i have no objections
[2011-04-14 01:00:24] <ichthyo> yes, agreed

[2011-04-14 01:00:45] <cehteh> Design the Render Nodes interface
[2011-04-14 01:01:04] <cehteh> thats definitely pending .. needs discussion
[2011-04-14 01:01:33] <ichthyo> yes
[2011-04-14 01:01:54] <cehteh> maybe we park it to get rid of it for now since this is months ahead?
[2011-04-14 01:02:28] <ichthyo> we could even drop it, but parking is ok
[2011-04-14 01:02:44] <ichthyo> that RfC basically sais: PLING PLING PLING, we need to discuss that
[2011-04-14 01:02:53] <cehteh> well, I wont drop it, its a nice place to document the intention about the design
[2011-04-14 01:03:10] <ichthyo> ok, so lets park it

[2011-04-14 01:03:13] <cehteh> Developer Documentation Structure
[2011-04-14 01:03:23] <cehteh> i check that, bring it up to date and finalize it?
[2011-04-14 01:03:36] <ichthyo> i have some objections agains that, see my comment
[2011-04-14 01:04:00] <ichthyo> I think, the current structure is better than what that RfC proposes
[2011-04-14 01:04:05] <cehteh> yes .. thats what i meant with bring it up to date
[2011-04-14 01:04:39] <cehteh> i can keep it pending .. and then we can finalize it when you agree
[2011-04-14 01:04:49] <ichthyo> ok, so you will update it?
[2011-04-14 01:05:32] <cehteh> yes .. maybe not for next time but i put it on todo

[2011-04-14 01:05:35] <cehteh> http://lumiera.org/documentation/devel/rfc_pending/EngineInterfaceOverview.html
[2011-04-14 01:05:50] <cehteh> pending .. there is lot to do?
[2011-04-14 01:06:02] <ichthyo> sort of
[2011-04-14 01:06:10] <ichthyo> basically that is a high level outline
[2011-04-14 01:06:19] <cehteh> this is a rather big thing maybe we drop it in favor of smaller rfc's
[2011-04-14 01:06:23] <ichthyo> it doesn't contain details
[2011-04-14 01:06:27] <cehteh> but for now leave it pending
[2011-04-14 01:06:45] <ichthyo> at the time I wrote that, you said it looks okish for you
[2011-04-14 01:06:58] <cehteh> yes .. quite possible
[2011-04-14 01:06:55] <ichthyo> this one would be really important to discuss soon
[2011-04-14 01:07:11] <cehteh> i need to catch up first ..duh
[2011-04-14 01:07:23] <ichthyo> note: it doesnt go into details, just sets a very high level outline how the overall process works
[2011-04-14 01:07:39] <ichthyo> I think *that one* is really needed to be accepted/ reworked soon
[2011-04-14 01:07:43] <cehteh> yes .. lets talk next meeting about that (or some time else)
[2011-04-14 01:07:57] <ichthyo> ok
[2011-04-14 01:08:05] <cehteh> so pending for now

[2011-04-14 01:08:11] <ichthyo> FeatureBundle
[2011-04-14 01:08:14] <ichthyo> park
[2011-04-14 01:08:26] <cehteh> park
[2011-04-14 01:08:26] <ichthyo> very important, but far future
[2011-04-14 01:08:33] <cehteh> yes

[2011-04-14 01:08:39] <ichthyo> MarbleMode
[2011-04-14 01:08:51] <ichthyo> this is also a high level one
[2011-04-14 01:08:57] <ichthyo> I am much in favour of that
[2011-04-14 01:09:09] <ichthyo> but its really kind of conceptual
[2011-04-14 01:09:20] <cehteh> me too ... but its too early to finalize it or?
[2011-04-14 01:09:52] <cehteh> that would be a 'accepted' candidate too :)
[2011-04-14 01:09:55] <ichthyo> well, I would accept it...
[2011-04-14 01:10:23] <ichthyo> but I wrote it so you (and others) also think that over
[2011-04-14 01:10:27] <cehteh> i think 'final' should somethnig which wont be changed or discussed anymore unless we see problems
[2011-04-14 01:10:40] <cehteh> thats why i am thinking we may need an 'accepted' state
[2011-04-14 01:11:07] <cehteh> and this marble mode certainly needs a lot more discussion and work to be final
[2011-04-14 01:11:51] <ichthyo> mhm, but that RfC just proposes to go for that direction, not how to do all the details
[2011-04-14 01:11:58] <cehteh> or we just finalize it as 'concept' we want no matter how we implement it finally
[2011-04-14 01:12:05] <cehteh> yes ok then
[2011-04-14 01:12:10] <ichthyo> yes, ok then

[2011-04-14 01:12:49] <cehteh> http://lumiera.org/documentation/devel/rfc_pending/NormalizedDeviceCoordinates.html
[2011-04-14 01:12:54] <cehteh> very rough
[2011-04-14 01:13:17] <cehteh> makes a lot of sense .. but unfinished, pending or park?
[2011-04-14 01:13:37] <ichthyo> I'd say park
[2011-04-14 01:13:51] <ichthyo> (I am also much in favour of that one)
[2011-04-14 01:13:42] <cehteh> ok

[2011-04-14 01:14:16] <ichthyo> ProcHighLevel
[2011-04-14 01:14:24] <cehteh> thats rather final now?
[2011-04-14 01:14:26] <ichthyo> my vote goes for accept
[2011-04-14 01:14:35] <cehteh> is it up to date?
[2011-04-14 01:14:41] <ichthyo> no significant addition since almost two years
[2011-04-14 01:14:46] <ichthyo> yes, its up to date
[2011-04-14 01:14:52] <cehteh> ok final
[2011-04-14 01:15:37] <ichthyo> and, btw, I know that you also supported many of those ideas

[2011-04-14 01:15:39] <cehteh> placement .. 
[2011-04-14 01:15:48] <ichthyo> I think same for that
[2011-04-14 01:15:57] <cehteh> up to date?
[2011-04-14 01:16:00] <ichthyo> if you don't have a problem with it, I vote for accept
[2011-04-14 01:16:28] <ichthyo> yes, as far as I can see, its up to date
[2011-04-14 01:16:32] <cehteh> yes for me the question is only if you need to refine some final things before accepting it
[2011-04-14 01:17:06] <cehteh> ok accept

[2011-04-14 01:17:18] <cehteh> http://lumiera.org/documentation/devel/rfc_pending/RenderOptimizer.html
[2011-04-14 01:17:19] <cehteh> park
[2011-04-14 01:17:32] <ichthyo> accept for me
[2011-04-14 01:17:56] <ichthyo> that is so much our common understanding meanwhile
[2011-04-14 01:18:02] <ichthyo> so, maybe just polish a bit
[2011-04-14 01:18:18] <cehteh> yes park because it needs some polishing before final
[2011-04-14 01:18:24] <ichthyo> (remove the "pro and con") and then we could accept it right away
[2011-04-14 01:18:28] <cehteh> i can put a note that its basically accepted 
[2011-04-14 01:18:38] <cehteh> parking isnt neccessary bad :P

[2011-04-14 01:18:46] <ichthyo> ResourceManagement
[2011-04-14 01:18:49] <cehteh> (well again that would be a 'accept' candidate)
[2011-04-14 01:18:53] <ichthyo> needs some more work
[2011-04-14 01:19:01] <cehteh> that are 2 things .. yes
[2011-04-14 01:19:10] <cehteh> profiling and budgeting .. 
[2011-04-14 01:19:21] <cehteh> i think i will implement them and then see how it works
[2011-04-14 01:19:40] <cehteh> (unless someone else shows better alternatives)
[2011-04-14 01:19:47] <ichthyo> if you change that and e.g. remove the code sample and make it really short and high level,
                                then we could accept it as a concept; but the implementation details need certainly more work
[2011-04-14 01:20:17] <cehteh> hey that code is the code i lost with the hdd crash .. i am happy that i put it there
[2011-04-14 01:20:27] <cehteh> yes it was a very rough idea
[2011-04-14 01:20:37] <cehteh> and not on schedule to implemented soon
[2011-04-14 01:20:45] <cehteh> i just sketched some code down
[2011-04-14 01:21:04] <cehteh> so pending or park?
[2011-04-14 01:21:08] <ichthyo> as said, would it be ok for you to remove that sketch and just leave it on that level of the
                                first sentences, because then we could accept it right away
[2011-04-14 01:21:45] <cehteh> ok pending for now .. i dont want to work on this currently .. other things are more important
[2011-04-14 01:21:47] <ichthyo> we both pretty much agree that we *want* some kind of budget managing and resource usage

[2011-04-14 01:22:41] <cehteh> http://lumiera.org/documentation/devel/rfc_pending/Roadmap-first.html
[2011-04-14 01:22:45] <cehteh> final?
[2011-04-14 01:22:51] <ichthyo> oops! my fault
[2011-04-14 01:22:55] <cehteh> anything not up to date?
[2011-04-14 01:23:00] <ichthyo> that *was* accepted long ago
[2011-04-14 01:23:13] <cehteh> haha ok
[2011-04-14 01:23:47] <ichthyo> we discussed and accepted that 2009, judging from the comments

[2011-04-14 01:23:49] <cehteh> http://lumiera.org/documentation/devel/rfc_pending/StreamTypeSystem.html
[2011-04-14 01:24:06] <ichthyo> very important for me -- my vote is for accept
[2011-04-14 01:24:16] <cehteh> we had some discussion how to maintain metadata .. 
[2011-04-14 01:24:40] <cehteh> i vote for accept too but this metadata (which may decribe the type) needs work
[2011-04-14 01:24:49] <ichthyo> well, this one is really a heavyweight conceptual RfC
[2011-04-14 01:25:00] <ichthyo> it is not about *how* to maintain metadata
[2011-04-14 01:25:05] <cehteh> yes
[2011-04-14 01:25:08] <cehteh> so accept
[2011-04-14 01:25:18] <ichthyo> but it really contains far reaching decisions
[2011-04-14 01:25:27] <ichthyo> and terminology
[2011-04-14 01:25:51] <ichthyo> please see, I would be glad if there was some discussion about that
[2011-04-14 01:26:36] <ichthyo> but well, at the moment I am the only one thinking into more details of this whole topic
[2011-04-14 01:26:24] <cehteh> shall i leave it pending just to nag us?
[2011-04-14 01:26:50] <ichthyo> yes, leave it pending
[2011-04-14 01:27:10] <cehteh> i was thinking too about this .. but not consistently ... 
[2011-04-14 01:27:24] <ichthyo> as said, I vote for accept, but I would really ask you to think it over
[2011-04-14 01:27:38] <cehteh> i think that needs some time to settle to the right point [tm]
[2011-04-14 01:27:43] <ichthyo> I'm not right away implementing it, but the implementation is rather trivial
[2011-04-14 01:27:48] <ichthyo> so leave it pending

[2011-04-14 01:28:00] <cehteh> http://lumiera.org/documentation/devel/rfc_pending/ThreadsSignalsAndImportantManagementTasks.html
[2011-04-14 01:28:33] <cehteh> we need to work together to implement this on the main .. but generally i think this can be
                               accepted with some refinements
[2011-04-14 01:28:14] <ichthyo> some time ago, we had a short discussion about that
[2011-04-14 01:28:55] <ichthyo> The bottom line was: I am in favour of that, but I rather would like not to build it
                                directly into that main thread, but have a dedicated thread for it
                                and at that time you said, that would not be a fundamental problem
[2011-04-14 01:29:30] <cehteh> i wonder why not the main thread .. but its ok for me
[2011-04-14 01:29:53] <ichthyo> my argument is keeping the code simple and dedicated to one purpose
[2011-04-14 01:30:05] <cehteh> the main thread is a kindof 'service thread' right?
[2011-04-14 01:30:09] <ichthyo> the main thread's purpose is to wake up and shut down the system
[2011-04-14 01:30:25] <ichthyo> and I'd prefer to let him do only that and nothing else
[2011-04-14 01:30:26] <cehteh> i dont want the cinelerra fail .. opening a thread for every purpose
[2011-04-14 01:30:58] <ichthyo> generally yes, but for the more fine grained things we have the scheduler
[2011-04-14 01:31:08] <cehteh> well ok .. from my pov the main thread is more than just that but a general sheepheard
[2011-04-14 01:31:39] <cehteh> not only starting and shutdown but also control the direction
[2011-04-14 01:32:08] <cehteh> but really this isnt much a difference, if you want an extra thread then let it be so
[2011-04-14 01:32:46] <ichthyo> I see the code complexity. It would just look okish for me if we split it into these two
[2011-04-14 01:33:26] <cehteh> there is not much complexity, the main thread waits currently .. 
[2011-04-14 01:34:02] <cehteh> and it can get woken by signals or condvar (convars return when a signal arrives)
[2011-04-14 01:34:29] <cehteh> actually having an extra thread wont make the code simpler because then the main thread
                               needs to be rigged to ignore the signals. All other threads are created by us and can
                               implicitly be rigged in this way
[2011-04-14 01:34:53] <ichthyo> main thread handles that already, if I recall correct
[2011-04-14 01:35:05] <ichthyo> because it loops on the condition and goes to sleep again
[2011-04-14 01:35:29] <cehteh> yes but you didnt add any sigmask handling / signal blocking right?
[2011-04-14 01:35:44] <ichthyo> ah I see, thats still todo
[2011-04-14 01:35:51] <cehteh> anyways .. i accept it .. implementation pending
[2011-04-14 01:37:38] <cehteh> signal handling becomes a 'subsystem' then ... :)
[2011-04-14 01:37:46] <ichthyo> yes, thats what I mean

[2011-04-14 01:36:50] <cehteh> http://lumiera.org/documentation/devel/rfc_pending/TimelineSequenceOutput.html
[2011-04-14 01:36:52] <cehteh> final?
[2011-04-14 01:37:00] <ichthyo> definitively final
[2011-04-14 01:38:08] <ichthyo> TimelineSequence: the key point is: we have multiple timelines
[2011-04-14 01:38:28] <ichthyo> and a sequence can be used in multiple timelines
[2011-04-14 01:38:36] <cehteh> yes .. ok for me i think
[2011-04-14 01:38:37] <ichthyo> I think we pretty much agree on that

[2011-04-14 01:39:01] <cehteh> http://lumiera.org/documentation/devel/rfc_pending/UseCases.html
[2011-04-14 01:39:08] <cehteh> nobody cares :P
[2011-04-14 01:39:20] <ichthyo> nobody cares
[2011-04-14 01:39:34] <cehteh> that means parked? or drop?
[2011-04-14 01:39:35] <ichthyo> park it, until we have someone working on the workflow

[2011-04-14 01:40:01] <cehteh> http://lumiera.org/documentation/devel/rfc_pending/VersionNumberScheme.html
[2011-04-14 01:40:10] <cehteh> accept (after you explained it to me .. )
[2011-04-14 01:40:35] <ichthyo> :-D
[2011-04-14 01:40:14] <ichthyo> accept

[2011-04-14 01:40:41] <cehteh> http://lumiera.org/documentation/devel/rfc_pending/WebsiteNavigation.html
[2011-04-14 01:40:50] <cehteh> is that final? 
[2011-04-14 01:40:55] <cehteh> (up to date)
[2011-04-14 01:41:15] <cehteh> do others need to discuss this .. fsiddi?
[2011-04-14 01:41:27] <ichthyo> there is one point: the tagging of pages
[2011-04-14 01:41:37] <ichthyo> if we remove that, the rest is implemented right now
[2011-04-14 01:42:08] <cehteh> leave it pending and when you meet with fsiidi next time you discuss and fix this?
[2011-04-14 01:42:18] <ichthyo> ok

[2011-04-14 01:47:47] <ichthyo> so meeting is finished now, officially...
[2011-04-14 01:47:59] <cehteh> n8 :)
[2011-04-14 01:48:10] <cehteh> well i work a bit .. night owl mode :P
[2011-04-14 01:48:11] <ichthyo> next meeting on 11.5.2011
[2011-04-14 01:48:42] <ichthyo> btw, I'm quite sure I skip LAC this time
[2011-04-14 01:48:52] <cehteh> me too
[2011-04-14 01:48:58] <ichthyo> just overall too much to do right now
[2011-04-14 01:49:15] <cehteh> no lumiera at lac
[2011-04-14 01:49:33] <ichthyo> but I'd be quite interested to come to that FSCONS conference skangas told us about
[2011-04-14 01:49:38] <ichthyo> in october or so
[2011-04-14 01:49:57] <cehteh> lets see .. time & money
[2011-04-14 01:51:12] <ichthyo> ok, going off now
[2011-04-14 01:51:15] * cehteh goes hunting some food
[2011-04-14 01:51:19] <ichthyo> (and hopefully going to bed soon)
[2011-04-14 01:51:21] <cehteh> see you
[2011-04-14 01:51:24] <ichthyo> see you!
----------------------------

