2012-01-11 Lumiera Developers Meeting
=====================================
:Author: cehteh
:Date: 2012-01-11

Jan 11, 2011 on #lumiera 20:00 - 22:30

__Participants__

 * cehteh
 * ichthyo
 * benn
 * raffa

Conclusions
-----------

. _ichthyo_ removed most of the TiddlyWikis, and worked the content into the website
. _cehteh_ reports that Lumiera got another donation (75 â‚¬), arrangements with
  the FFIS to get access (view) about the donations account are under way. We'll
  ask donors then if they want to be published or stay anonymous and will set up
  a wiki page listing donations and expenses.
. _ichthyo_ reworked the SCons build, as discussed last time
. _cehteh_ writes a very short RfC, to document that we're using SCons for now.
. possibly no one going to LAC, too far away
. we discussed a link checker / link resolver for the website.
  The idea is to have a semi automatic tool, which is used locally when
  authoring website content to find cross references.
. _benny_ and _ichthyo_ follow up on the
  link:http://libregraphicsmag.com/[Libre Graphics Magazine]'s offer to promote
  graphics and media projects and try to get into discussion with them and see
  what can be done within our limited time. 
. when it comes to have a working example for media file output, we stick to the
  mainstream solutions *ffmpeg* and or *gstreamer*, but care not to lock ourselves
  into a single solution. Concluded that we do this over plugin interfaces --
  it mostly boils down to support ffmpeg -- besides we'll investigate simple
  alternatives for basic output.
